# Hospital-Management-System
The project Hospital Management system includes registration of patients, storing their details into the system, and also computerized billing in the pharmacy, and labs. The software has the facility to give a unique id for every patient and stores the details of every patient and the staff automatically. It includes a search facility to know the current status of each room. User can search availability of a doctor and the details of a patient using the id. The Hospital Management System can be entered using a username and password. It is accessible either by an administrator or receptionist. Only they can add data into the database. The data can be retrieved easily. The interface is very user-friendly. The data are well protected for personal use and makes the data processing very fast. Hospital Management System is powerful, flexible, and easy to use and is designed and developed to deliver real conceivable benefits to hospitals. Hospital Management System is designed for multispecialty hospitals, to cover a wide range of hospital administration and management processes. It is an integrated end-to-end Hospital Management System that provides relevant information across the hospital to support effective decision making for patient care, hospital administration and critical financial accounting, in a seamless flow. Hospital Management System is a software product suite designed to improve the quality and management of hospital management in the areas of clinical process analysis and activity-based costing. Hospital Management System enables you to develop your organization and improve its effectiveness and quality of work. Managing the key processes efficiently is critical to the success of the hospital helps you manage your processes.The purpose of the project entitled as “Hospital Management System” is to computerize the Front Office Management of Hospital to develop software which is user friendly, simple, fast and cost-effective. It deals with the collection of patient’s information like add patient, update patient, delete patient, search patient, view patient diagnosis, etc. Traditionally, it was done manually. The main function of the system is register and store patient details and doctor details and retrieve these details as and when required, and also to manipulate these details meaningfully. The Hospital Management System can be entered using a username and password. It is accessible by an Admin, Doctor and Patient. Only they can add data into the database. The data can be retrieved easily. The data are well protected for personal use and makes the data processing very fast.Computers are not only used to increase the efficiency in all fields ranging from fixing the appointment with the Doctor to keep the record of the Patient.

